There are really just 4 types of stressful situations you’ll encounter as a parent.

By using the appropriate response for each of the 4 situations, you’ll be able to reduce yelling in your family by 80% (or more).

This is where The Emergency Scale comes into play.

#1 - Emergencies

These are life-or-death situations where your kids are in danger and could get seriously hurt.

In those situations, where seconds matter, yelling to get their attention is a must.

These are situations like crossing the road without looking, getting dangerously close to the edge of a cliff, or trying to eat a toy they could choke on.

In these situations, you should yell “[NAME], STOP!”.

That’s it - plain and simple. You should always use the word STOP, because they’ll instantly stop in their tracks.

But you should ONLY use this phrase when there’s true danger around them, to make sure you get their attention when you need it the most.

Resist using it in other situations where your child isn’t in danger (like fighting with their siblings, painting the wall, or making a mess around the house).

#2 - Non-negotiables

Non-negotiables are things that are simply not ok for your child to do.

Things like fighting with their siblings, not going to school, not doing their homework, not brushing their teeth, biting, hitting, anger outbursts, or destroying things around the house.

These are things that can have a drastic negative impact on your child’s life.

In these situations, use the 3-Step Education together with Logical Consequences.

You can also explain to your child in a calm manner that “This is a non-negotiable for you, it is not acceptable behaviour, and there will be no negotiation around it.”

But don’t forget to use the Shoulder Tap and Quiet Speech here.

You have to be firm and consistent, but you can do that in a calm, peaceful way (think about how Professor Dumbledore would approach these situations, and you’ll have a fairly good idea how to handle them.

#3 - Negotiables

Next, we have activities that ARE negotiable.

These might be things like buying toys, screen time, eating vegetables that they don’t like…

They will mostly not have a large negative impact on their life, but will make your home much more peaceful if they’re handled properly.

These are things that are opportunities for teaching your kids lessons about patience, grit, perseverance, money management and doing things they might not enjoy doing, but are good for them.

In these cases, use Smart Negotiation.

Over time, your kids will realize how everything works around your home, they’ll see that there are consistent rules and trade-offs they can make…

And there will be less and less need for negotiation.

#4 - Kids being kids

Finally, there are things that kids do just because they’re kids, and you should let them do them in the right way.

These opportunities allow your kids to learn about responsibility, acquire new skills, and nurture their childlike curiosity and playfulness instead of stifling them.

These are things like climbing on trees, running around the house or a playground, playing with toys, or doing things that are “messy” but don’t really impact their life in a negative way.

If your kid comes home from the playground completely dirty but with a smile on their face… Let them. You likely did too as a kid.

If they make a mess in the garden… Let them. What’s more important to you - your garden or your child?

If they run around the house because they love running… Let them. They’ll develop their agility skills.

Kids with ADHD often learn by moving, making noise, and getting messy. It’s not misbehavior. It’s how their brain builds coordination, confidence, and curiosity.

So, instead of forbidding them to do these things, find ways to guide them in doing them.

If they come home dirty… Teach them how to clean themselves and their clothes properly. Have them help out with the laundry.

Then they can decide for themselves whether they want to be dirty and take a long shower, and if they want to scrub down their dirty clothes… Or if they want to avoid that and pay a bit more attention the next time. Let them make the choice and commit to it.

If they make a mess around the house, or in the garden… Let them, but then also make sure they clean up after themselves or fix what they’ve broken. If they destroyed a plant, help them replant it, or use this as an opportunity to go to a garden store and teach them how to plant new plants.

But do it with a smile on your face, not a frown.

This is where you SHOULD set some boundaries and implement Logical Consequences whenever necessary, but if possible, try to avoid it.

Acknowledge they’ve made a mess, and explain that it’s okay if they do so, but they must also take responsibility for cleaning it up.

What you should avoid at all costs is doing things INSTEAD of them. Doing their laundry, washing them, cleaning up their mess…

Even if they break a glass, it’s not the end of the world - you can teach them how to clean it up in a safe way by leading by example and letting them participate. And show them how to bandage themselves up if they do get hurt in the process.

Don’t rob them of these important life experiences by trying to overprotect them. If you do that, they’ll just break their leg by slipping in a bathtub because they haven’t developed the right agility skills by climbing trees (in a safe way).

And if your child’s “chaos” tends to trigger you, try using a visual Emergency Scale: 1 = Kid just being a kid, 4 = Real danger. Stick it to the fridge as a reminder before reacting.

Finally, if you notice your kids just love doing something… like running, or climbing… Use the “Yes, But How” strategy and help them channel their enthusiasm into an activity where they can learn how to do that in a safe way.

Ask them if they’d like to enrol in a rock climbing class, gymnastics class, or an art class - chances are they’ll be over the moon about it if that’s already something they’re trying to do on their own.

If you can’t afford to pay for a class, simply do the activity with them and learn it together. There are plenty of instructional videos on YouTube that can help you acquire countless life skills. You can use these activities to fill up their emotional tank, spend quality time with them, create childhood memories, and deepen their bond with them.

But whatever you do… Don’t forget about everything you’ve learned in this challenge so far.

Channel your inner Albus Dumbledore and be the guiding parent they need you and want you to be.

To get started with using The Emergency Scale, here’s what you can do:

Take 5 minutes to create your Emergency Scale on a piece of paper or in a document. Sort out which activities your kids do that tend to upset you and put them into different categories based on how they affect you.

Next, reflect on which of these activities have triggered an inappropriate reaction from you in the past. Create a plan for how you'll handle these situations differently in the future.

Finally, when you find yourself getting upset by something your kids are doing, take a moment to go through a mental checklist.  Ask yourself “Where does this situation fall on the Emergency Scale?”. If it’s an emergency, yell STOP, If it’s a non-negotiable, use 3-Step Education. If it's a negotiable matter, opt for Smart Negotiation. And if it's just typical child behaviour, employ "Yes, But How,"along with Logical Consequences and gentle guidance.

That’s it for today.