One of the root causes of losing control is uncertainty.

When you feel like things are getting out of hand…

When you don’t know how much longer you can keep it together…

When you just don’t see the light at the end of the tunnel…

It’s hard to stay calm.

And it’s easy to panic.

One thing you can do to regain control of the situation whenever you feel like you’re starting to “lose it” is to minimize the uncertainty.

One simple way to do that is to create a mental Expiration Date for the situation you’re in.

Ask yourself, “How long could this situation actually last?”.

It might be 5 minutes (until you can stop at the next gas station so your kids can go to the toilet)...

It might be 30 minutes (until you pay for groceries and get back home)...

Or, in rare cases, it might be a few hours (until you come back home from a hiking trip).

In any case, giving the stressful situation an Expiration Date gives you that tiny bit of control that you need to manage to stay calm and use the appropriate ADHD No-Yelling Tool.

You can say to yourself something like:

“This too will pass. I just need to pay for the groceries, and then we’ll be alone in the car. It will get easier. There will be nobody around us. I can do this.”

Even if the situation could last longer, chances are that it won’t. In that case, you can say to yourself something like:

“I understand that even if everything goes wrong, this situation will last 2 hours at most. If that happens, it won’t be the end of the world. We’ll be okay. We’ve been through worse. It won’t last forever, and it doesn’t have to ruin our day. Plus, there's a chance it won't last that long. Maybe there’s something I can do to de-escalate it. It’s okay, I’m calm, I’m in control. I can do this.”

Now, to make this strategy easier, go ahead and make an Expiration Date List.

Simply go over as many stressful situations as you can from the last month that made you feel powerless, helpless, or nervous, and write down how long each of those lasted.

You can use your No-Yelling Tracker to help you remember some of the situations you might have forgotten.

Now that you know what the Expiration Date of each situation is, you can take things a step further.

You can go through those situations and write down an appropriate ADHD No-Yelling Tool you can use once they arise.

This way, the next time they happen…

You will already know the Expiration Date

And you will have a plan for what to do

This means you’ll be able to react in a much calmer way, and over time, this will become automatic to you.

You’ll just say to yourself:

“Ok, this will only last 5 minutes. It’s just kids being kids. I can just be next to them and have a good laugh about it.”

Or:

“Ok, this can only last 30 minutes if all goes wrong. Let me think of Two Good Choices to defuse the situation. If that doesn’t work, we can try a Do-Over or use the Magic Word.”

You can even share this thinking out loud with your child, to model calm self-talk for them too.

Once this process becomes automatic to you, you’ll be surprised at how calm you’ll be able to stay, even in the most powerful storm.

So go on, make your Expiration Date List, and then try this strategy in practice.

As always, let me know how it went by responding to this e-mail.