 
I once worked with a mom whose son resisted everything she told him to do.

She said that one of the things he hated the most was taking out the trash.

He always responded with:

“Go do it yourself! I’m not your garbage man!”

But because I spent some time with her son and got to know him a bit better, I knew that he was obsessed with superhero movies and had multiple Halloween costumes stored up in the attic.

The next time that happened, I recommended that she respond with:

“Why don’t you put on your Spiderman costume, that way you’ll be Spiderman.”

She thought I was joking and that it wouldn’t work.

But she agreed to try it anyway.

To her surprise, her son happily sprinted into the attic, put on his costume, and, dressed as Spiderman, sprinted back and took out the trash.

Was it silly? Yes.

Did it work? Yes.

What was fascinating was that this became a “thing” in their family. When it was time to do his chores, her son put on his Spiderman costume, jumped around, and had a whole lot of fun doing things that would otherwise bore and annoy him.

He became much more cooperative because of one small change.

And when he grows up, he’ll always have fun childhood memories to remember - perhaps he’ll even use the same strategy with his kids one day instead of yelling at them.

What we did in this situation was we created an Alter Ego.

It wasn’t him taking out the trash - it was Spiderman.

Many of the world’s best athletes, executives and entrepreneurs use Alter Egos on a daily basis, and their effect on human performance in challenging situations is undeniable.

Now, an Alter Ego doesn’t have to be Spiderman - it could be Wonder Woman, or Beyonce, or anyone else your child admires.

It doesn’t need to require a costume (although physical artefacts and costumes do make things more effective, fun, and enjoyable for your kids).

It also doesn’t just work with getting your kids to do chores… It helps them stay more focused by studying, dealing with difficult life situations, and developing the self-confidence they might lack.

This is especially useful for kids with ADHD, who may struggle with low frustration tolerance or feel incapable of “boring” or difficult tasks. The Alter Ego bypasses resistance by reframing the task as play.

You can also use Alter Egos more quickly.

When your child is particularly stubborn or doesn’t know what to do in a situation, simply ask them:

“Hey, what do you think Spiderman would do?”

Or

“If you asked Spiderman for advice, what would he tell you?”

You’ll be surprised to see how quickly the thinking and behaviour of your kids with ADHD changes when you use this strategy.

There are also two great books by bestselling author Todd Herman that you can use to help your kids create and use their own Alter Egos:

The Alter Ego Effect (great for older kids, especially if they love sports - they can read it by themselves, or you can read it and teach them the frameworks from it)

My Super Me (a children’s book for younger kids)

Even though these books don’t specifically focus on children with ADHD, I found that the strategies inside work really well for them too.
So, go on, think about a superhero or a celebrity your child admires (if you don’t know, ask them who their favourite superhero is)...

Next time they’re being especially stubborn, ask them, “What would ______ do?” or suggest they put on their costume…

You’ll be amazed at how this simple shift can transform resistance into excitement.

And see what happens, plus let me know about it by responding to this e-mail.
