 
If you feel like you’re always in a rush to go somewhere… If you’re always late… And if you tend to yell and struggle in those situations because your kids just don’t listen and cooperate…

Then Buffer Time will be a lifesaver.
For example, let’s say you typically wake up at 7 am.

While you’re getting ready, you expect your kids to get ready as well.

But when you open the doors to their room at 7:30, you notice they’re busy playing with their toys, still sleeping in their bed or scrolling on their phone…

Of course, you’re not happy.

So what can you do in this case?

There are a few possible solutions.

#1 - Get your kids ready first.

First, make sure your kids get ready before you start getting ready yourself. Typically, they won’t need the whole 30 minutes - if they actually get started.

So, make sure they get started, and you can assist them if they want to.

Remember The Two Good Choices:

“Do you want to get ready yourself, or do you want me to help you?”

“Will you wear the blue or orange t-shirt today?”

“Do you want to brush your teeth or get dressed first?”

The key is to just get the ball rolling. Once they’re up and moving, everything else tends to flow more easily.

Kids with ADHD often get stuck in the initiation phase, so simply breaking that initial inertia, like sitting up or standing, can make a big difference in how the rest of the routine goes.

And once they’re ready… They can do whatever they want while they wait for you to get ready.

This doesn’t just apply to going to school - you can use the same strategy when you go to the movies, grocery store, or to visit their grandparents.

If that doesn’t work, then switch to the next strategy.

#2 - Buffer Time

First, figure out how long you are typically late. Is it 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 30 minutes?

That’s your buffer time.

You can use the Buffer Time in the following ways:

Add Buffer Time to every activity you have planned in your day that involves kids.

If your Buffer Time is 30 minutes, then put their baseball practice in your calendar 30 minutes earlier. This might mean that you’ll have to slightly clear up your schedule or cancel some of your commitments.

That’s okay.

Most parents these days overcommit to doing too many things, and then they’re always in a rush, always stressed out, always late, and always yelling (and kids with ADHD feel that tension).

If you do this, it’s worse for both you AND your kids.

You’re both more stressed out because of it.

It’s better to do one thing less in a day and have the day go smoothly and calmly than to be constantly nervous about being on time.

If you know you have to be at the movies at 6 pm, and you know you have to leave the house at 5:30 pm…

Then shift that time to 5:15 pm - that should be the time you communicate with your kids. If you get there early, great, they’ll have plenty of time to go to the bathroom, arcades, or get some popcorn.

If you are technically 15 minutes late, you’ll still be there on time - without the unnecessary stress.

Get ready 10 minutes earlier.

You can wake up 10 minutes earlier, get ready earlier, and create a Buffer Time for your kids to get ready without a fuss.

Yes, you might sleep 10 minutes less, BUT you won’t start your day completely stressed out, so you’ll be much better off.

Get your kids ready 10 minutes earlier.

If your kids are always late to school, simply start waking them up 10 minutes earlier.

At first, they won’t like it.

And you might feel sorry for them.

But don’t - because you yelling at them and stressing them out earlier in the day has a far worse impact on their mood, behaviour, and life.

And for children with ADHD, rushed mornings almost guarantee meltdowns, forgetfulness, and shame. A 10-minute buffer is an investment in emotional regulation.

Ok, now let’s put this strategy into practice:

Think about how much Buffer Time you need.

Think about when you need it the most (which activities you’re typically late to).

Cancel some activities to create space for buffer time and say yes to 10% fewer activities in the future.

And then test out the strategies I shared with you in today’s email.