Today, when you try to get your child’s attention, instead of yelling… do the exact opposite.

Simply approach them and speak to them as quietly as possible. You can even experiment with whispering in their ear.

I call this technique quiet speech, and while it may sound deceptively simple… it works like a charm.

You see, if you’ve been yelling at your kids more than you’d like… That’s the form of communication they expect.

When you do the complete opposite, like approach them and whisper in their ear, that will be unexpected for them - which is why they’ll instantly start paying attention.

This “novelty effect” works especially well with ADHD brains, which are wired to notice what's new or surprising.

Simply walk up to them and give your instruction in the quietest possible tone.

Their attention will be focused on you, not on their toys, surroundings, or other people. They’ll also be looking at your face, mouth, and eyes, and come even closer to hear you and understand you more easily.

If they can’t hear you (but you’re near enough so they can see you speaking), that will trigger their curiosity. Especially if they see you aren’t visibly angry or upset, but calm and collected.

You can play around with quiet speech even when you’re not directly next to your kids. Next time you use it, don’t go directly to them… Do it from a few steps away. Then progressively increase the distance between you and them.

This way, they’ll get used to the “new normal” - quiet, calm communication. Plus, you’ll train their attentive listening skills so they’ll pay more attention to you.

Even kids with ADHD can build this listening habit, especially if you turn it into a game: “Let’s see who can hear the secret voice!”

Your goal is to use the same tone of voice for everything - from instructions, demands, and requests, to positive things that your kids enjoy - things they find important and interesting.

For example, ask them what they’d like to eat for supper, or agree on a time to go to the playground, or ask them what they’d like for their birthday, and so on.

This will make sure they pay attention because it’s in THEIR interest - because they won’t want to miss out on something good.

With consistent use of quiet speech, your children will start getting the signal “when mom/dad talks, I listen. I wonder what they have to say this time around”. And, because they’re kids, they’ll start modelling you - and speaking in a quieter tone themselves. It’s a win-win.

I encourage you to do the same thing with not just your kids, but your partner as well - you’ll notice that this way of communication drastically decreases the amount of tension, stress, and yelling within the whole family. Often instantly.

Finally, there’s one subtle thing you should pay attention to. As you use quiet speech, go slow. Don’t rush it by speaking super fast - it will just confuse your kids and make you feel impatient. Say what you want to say in a slow, calm, quiet, collected way, and see what happens.

This pacing is extra important for ADHD brains. A slower, predictable rhythm helps the message “land” more clearly.

And to make it even easier to start using quiet speech, you can set reminders for yourself - either as Google calendar invites, phone alarms, or post-it notes on your bathroom mirror.

One quick reminder at the right moment can prevent a full yelling spiral.