 
There will inevitably come a time when something triggers you so much that you can’t help but yell at your kids.

Nobody is perfect after all.

But after you yell for the first time, you’ll be at a crossroads:

You can let the situation escalate into a full-blown yelling battle…

OR you can de-escalate the situation before more serious damage is done.

To do the latter, you can use a strategy I call The Do-Over.

Immediately after you yell, stop for a few seconds.

Then, say to your child: “I’m sorry I yelled at you. I shouldn’t have done that, no matter what. It was my mistake. Let’s do a do-over.”

Then, pretend that you never yelled.

Take a few-second break, then act out the situation again in the way you think you should have acted. Use the ADHD No-Yelling Tool appropriate for the situation, and remember to use Quiet Speech.

Often, these methods can help improve the situation and stop a bad mood from developing.

Now, I need to warn you - this might feel unlogical the first few times you do it.

And it might be difficult to calm yourself down if anger overcame you.

Your goal here isn’t to suppress your feelings or sweep things under the rug.

It’s to give yourself a second chance to react better and also give your child with ADHD a much-needed “reset” signal.

This will help you see that not all is lost if you do yell once, and more importantly, it will teach you how to act in the space between a trigger and your reaction.

Because you’ll still be overwhelmed by emotions when you do the do-over, this will teach you how to manage them a little bit better every time it happens.

It’s okay to be angry. You can even say out loud that you’re angry - but do it in a calm, quiet manner. But don’t let your emotions throw you into the fight-or-flight mode, where all you see is red.

(And if you're a parent with ADHD yourself, you might find it helpful to write a one-line script like “Pause. Breathe. Try again.” and post it on your fridge or mirror.)

The more you practice this strategy, the better you’ll react in the future.

So to try it at least 5 times, and try to do just a little bit better than you did last time.

Soon, it will become more logical to you, you’ll be able to de-escalate situations quicker, and prevent yourself from yelling in the first place.

Another great benefit is that kids often respond really well to the idea of a do-over, especially those with ADHD.

It feels playful and forgiving, giving them a clear, pressure-free chance to fix their behavior without getting stuck in shame.

So you’re hitting two birds with one stone - you’re not just teaching yourself how to regulate your emotions, but your kids as well.

This will lead to far less tantrums and meltdowns within a few weeks, as long as you use this strategy consistently.

So go on, try our The Do-Over next time you make a misstep in your parenting journey.

Then, reply to this e-mail to let me know how it went.
