 
If you’ve been using the ADHD No-Yelling Tools I shared with you, you have already drastically reduced the amount of yelling in your family.

Great job! Give yourself a pat on the back. You’re living up to the commitment you made to yourself and your family.

You’ve already come a long way, and things will only get better from here on.

And even if you did yell, you now have tools in your toolbox that will help you de-escalate the situations quickly.

But what about when everything fails and nothing goes according to plan, and you find yourself in a yelling battle?

Not all is lost.

You actually have a great opportunity to demonstrate how a mature person apologizes and reconnects after everything goes wrong.

Every crisis you face is an opportunity to bring your family closer together, instead of further apart.

To do that, you can use the Reconnection Protocol.

Instead of entering a “Shame Spiral” where you feel ashamed, tell yourself that you’re a bad parent or feel guilty about what you did, you can make sure that the situation you just faced doesn’t repeat itself.

You can turn every “mistake” you make into a learning opportunity - about your kids or yourself.

Here’s how the Reconnection Protocol works:

Step #1: Don’t stop communicating with your child.

Becoming a “Cold Mom / Dad” is one of the most harmful things you can do to your kids.

If you refuse to speak to your kids, they get a feeling like they’re not loved, that you’re pushing them away and that they’re not part of the family.

So, even when you do lose it, keep communicating with your kids. That’s always the first step.

This is especially important for children with ADHD. Rejection or silence can trigger deep insecurity and amplify emotional dysregulation.

Staying present, even quietly, reassures them that the connection is still intact.

Step #2: Consult with your child

Once everyone has calmed down, approach your child and say to them something like:

“Hey, I don’t know what happened today. We really couldn’t come to an agreement, and I don’t know why, and we made our life hard.”

Approach them in a warm way, as an equal.

Then, you should first LISTEN.

To learn about their perspective on the situation, you can use guiding questions like:

“What happened? What didn’t you like?”

“Why do you think we didn’t get along?”

“What do you think we can do to solve this?”

These will get your kids to think about what happened and come up with possible solutions.

They’re no longer mad at you for what happened; they’re working together with you to solve it, and they feel like you’re on the same team, which will make them much more likely to cooperate.

You can also let them fidget, draw, or walk around while talking. It can help kids with ADHD think more clearly and stay calm during emotional conversations.

Step #3a: Express your emotions (version for kids over 6 y.o.)

Next, admit to your child that you aren’t happy with how you reacted.

You can also explain to them the emotions you were feeling in the moment. It’s important to just express your emotions, and not blame your child for them.

Instead of saying “I felt angry because you didn’t do your homework and you never do your chores and…”, just say “I was angry”.

Then, you can engage your child and ask them how they think you could react differently next time.

You can also give them instructions for what to do next time you get into a conflict with them.

Let them ask you: “Are we going to keep yelling and fighting, or will we calm down?”.

This not only models accountability - it gives ADHD kids a clear, emotionally safe script they can reuse in future conflicts.

Step #3b: “We” instead of “You and Me” (younger than 6 y.o. version)

If you have a younger child, take them into your lap, hug and embrace them, and speak in “We”:

“We are quite angry today, aren’t we? We got really angry at each other.”

You can also use animals as an example:

“We were like two puppies today, weren’t we? We were barking quite loudly!”

At this point, ask your child: “What should we do now? How do puppies calm themselves down?”

Using an animal as an example makes it easier for your kids to put themselves into the shoes of someone else and calm down faster.

You can even draw a picture where there are two dogs on one side, barking at each other and showing their teeth. On the other side, there are two kittens with interlocking tails.

You can put this picture on your fridge or somewhere where it’s visible in your home.

Give your child a chance to go to the picture during the next yelling battle and point to it.

This serves as an escape mechanism for them. They can let you know that they feel uncomfortable because of your telling, and that they want you to find a way to calm down together.

Ok, that’s it for today.

Next time you find yourself in a yelling battle, use the Reconnection Protocol to calm down and improve your relationships with your kids.

Then, let me know how it went by responding to this e-mail.