 
You can decrease your everyday levels of stress and escape yelling battles by creating a Quiet Sofa.

A Quiet Sofa is a designated, safe space in your home where anyone in your family can find the peace and solitude they need to relax and unwind.

In this area, no one is allowed to be disturbed - not you, not the kids, not your partner.

The only situation where it’s okay to disturb someone in the Quiet Sofa is during an urgent emergency that cannot be delayed, such as a fire, a call from grandma regarding grandpa’s health, or picking up your daughter from her art class.

You can define what an emergency is in advance, together with your kids.

Now, the Quiet Sofa doesn’t actually need to be a sofa (although, from my experience, sofas do work pretty well).

It could be an armchair, a hammock, a dedicated room in the house, the balcony, the porch, the garden, or a small tent in the living room.

The key here is that everyone respects each other - when you are on the Quiet Sofa, if your kids want something from you that’s not an emergency, say “I need some alone time right now. I’ll be with you in 20 minutes” (or however much time you might need to relax).

Then, set an alarm to make sure you don’t break that commitment. Kids hate it when you do.

The same goes for your kids - when they’re on their Quiet Sofa, leave them alone. If it’s not an emergency, it can wait.

You can also use the Quiet Sofa when an argument goes out of hand - like to calm down after you use the Magic Word.

This way, you’re not bringing your battles, negative thoughts, and emotions into your calm space.

For children with ADHD, having a clear, low-stimulus “reset zone” helps them learn to regulate their emotions without relying on screens or fights to process big feelings.

You can put some quiet activities for yourself next to the Quiet Sofa - books, crossword puzzles, sudokus, newspapers, magazines, your Kindle…

And for your kids, you can prepare children’s books, colouring books, puzzles, etc.

Try to minimize the use of electronic devices as much as possible - the only exception should be calming or classical music. Too much screen time can actually increase dysregulation in kids with ADHD, even if it looks like they’re calm on the outside.

The Quiet Sofas area is also great because you teach your child to take care of themselves, relax, and disconnect from the overstimulating world.

And if you lead by example, they’re more likely to start behaving in a calmer way as well.

You can also give your Quiet Sofas a creative name - like a “Bumblebee Bungalow” - you can ask your kids for help with creating one.

Now go on, create your Quiet Sofa(s) and test them out.

Let me know how it went by replying to this e-mail.