Patience isn’t something you’re born with.

It’s a skill you can acquire.

One thing that I noticed that makes a big difference in how you react to different situations is the Inner Monologue you have with yourself.

If you impatiently speak to yourself… you’ll act more impulsively, feel more stressed out, and won’t be the best version of yourself as often as you might like to.

This is where Patience Cues come into play.

By using them, you’ll be able to gently bring yourself back to a moment of calm, and become more and more patient every day.

Here are a variety of different cues I’ve seen work best.

#1 - Calm Your Mind

You can use this cue whenever your mind starts racing, or whenever you feel like you’re in a particularly stressful or challenging situation.

If your mind can stay calm and controlled, so will you.

#2 - Focus on Your Breath

Whenever you catch yourself breathing through your mouth or breathing faster than normally, you can use this cue to bring yourself back to a calm, slow breath.

Once you bring the focus to your breath, you can also use the Zen Breath & Box Breathing techniques to put yourself back into a state of calm.

#3 - Release The Tension

Whenever you feel uncomfortable or tense in your body, use this cue to release the built-up tension.

You can combine this cue with the Progressive Muscle Relaxation technique you learned yesterday.

#4 - Practice, Not Perfection

Your goal isn’t to become the perfect parent overnight.

Your goal is to put in the daily practice to become a 1% better parent every day.

This mindset helps when parenting kids with ADHD, where progress is often non-linear.

Remind yourself that as long as you’re practising the use of ADHD No-Yelling Tools, Emergency Protocols, and Relaxation Triggers, things WILL get better.

#5 - Slowly, Slowly, Slowly

Whenever you’re using a technique that feels unlogical or counterintuitive for you, or when you start setting boundaries for your kids that aren’t used to them, you might face some resistance for the first few times.

That’s when you can use this cue to remind yourself that you won’t get better by trying to go faster - you’ll get better by slowing down, and making more time and space to parent in a calm, peaceful way.

#6 - What’s My Intention?

Whenever things get particularly difficult, ask yourself, “What’s My Intention?”

You can remember the Emergency Scale here.

What’s more important?

Your kids or a broken glass?

Your kids or a messy garden?

Your kids or all the errands you still need to run today?

Ask yourself what’s your intention is with what you’re doing right now.

Knowing what the intention is will make it easier to approach stressful situations peacefully and patiently.

#7 - It’s Not Torture

If parenting ever feels like a chore or torture, remind yourself that it’s not supposed to feel that way.

This is a warning sign that what you’re doing right now isn’t ideal, so change it.

Try a different approach - perhaps an ADHD No-Yelling Tool you haven’t tried before.

Over time, you’ll be able to find a set of strategies that work best for you and your family, that allow you to be patient and calm the vast majority of the time.

#8 - It Gets Worse Before It Gets Better

While this isn’t true for most strategies that I shared with you in this program, it’s true for some.

If your kids are particularly stubborn or strong-willed, if they tend to have anger outbursts when things don’t go their way, or just aren’t used to any sort of boundaries because you gave in and let them have things their way…

There will be a transition period when it comes to using strategies like 3-Step Education and Logical Consequences.

But this transition period will be shorter than you think.

Your kids are smart, and they learn quickly. If they see that you are firm and quick to act when it comes to Non-Negotiables, they’ll start respecting that sooner than you think.

The biggest mistake that you can make here is to paint a scenario in your head that “this just won’t work on your kids because a World War III will ensue if I do it”...

And then don’t give it a shot, or give up after you face resistance for the first time.

By giving in, you’ll make things far more stressful for yourself and your family later on, once your kids grow into stubborn teenagers.

So, try each strategy at least 3 times with full commitment, and remind yourself that it might get worse before it gets better.

#9 - Baby Steps

Over the past 28 days, we covered a lot of different strategies and tools.

We did that for a reason - so you can find ones that work best for you, and so you’re prepared for as many difficult situations the parenting journey brings your way as possible.

Don’t feel like you have to use all of these every single day.

Instead, focus on Baby Steps - just use one tool a day, and do a little bit better than you did yesterday.

#10 - You Are Capable of More Than You Think You Are

Finally, remind yourself that you are capable of so much more than you think.

No matter how difficult your journey is…

No matter how rough some days might be…

Know that you are 100% capable of figuring this out - and remind yourself frequently of it.

Many of the strategies in this program will trigger a snowball effect, and once you figure out a few key pieces of the puzzle, everything else will start falling into place.

So, be patient with yourself, with your kids, and with your partner.

By living up to your commitment and working through this 28-Day Challenge, you took the first, the most difficult step.

Now, all you need to do is keep the ball rolling and support each other in every way you can.

Ok, those are all the Patience Cues I wanted to share with you today.

Try them out, and keep using the ones that help you.

You can also start using them with your kids or your partner whenever they are facing difficult times in their lives.

This way, you can become their guiding mentor (and biggest supporter), and you’ll figure it all out together.
