When your kids are engaging in an activity (hanging out with friends, playing a video game or listening to music with their headphones on), just quiet speech isn’t enough.

That’s why, today, you’ll upgrade it so it works in those specific situations.

When you attempt to get the attention from your kids, walk up to them and gently tap on their shoulder.

For children with ADHD, who often hyperfocus or “tune out” surrounding input, this physical cue cuts through distractions without adding stress.

Touching them to gently let them know you require their attention is not only more effective than trying to yell (especially if they’re wearing headphones)...

It also strengthens the bond between you and your child, as they’re getting the feelings of warmth and affection from you, instead of anger and frustration.

The physical closeness helps regulate their nervous system.

This way, every time you communicate with them, you’re growing together, not apart.

And the stronger the bond you can build with your kids, the more likely they are to listen to you and follow your instructions.

Just think about it… Who are the people that your kids respect and listen to the most? The ones that they feel connected to the most.

Once you have their attention, continue with the quiet speech technique you learned and put into practice yesterday.

Because you’re already next to them, you can use a very calm and quiet voice, or even whisper.

As you put the Shoulder Tap into practice, pay attention to a few things:

The touch should be gentle. DO NOT shake your child or use rough touch - you want to be warm, not violent. And you want your kids to respond positively to your touch. Some children with ADHD also have sensory sensitivities, so if they react strongly, try tapping their arm or gently placing your hand near them instead. Let them guide what feels okay.

Approach them from the front. Don’t scare them, or peek at their screen (if they’re using one) and invade their privacy. Your goal is to get their attention, not monitor what they’re doing.

You can go one step forward and hug your child. Hugging your child will help them regulate emotions and improve the bond between you and your child. You don’t have to hug them EVERY time… but a good rule to strive for is that each of the parents should give each of your children at least one hug a day, whenever possible. If your child doesn’t want to be hugged in the moment (or if you’re out in public), that’s okay, don’t force it, and try again the next day.

Ok, that’s it for today.
