You might have tried “deep breathing” to calm down and stop yourself from yelling.

And there’s a pretty high chance it didn’t work.

Here’s why:

If you breathe too FAST, you’ll start hyperventilating, which will energise your body, instead of calming it down.

If you place too much focus on the inhale rather than the exhale, you'll experience the same effect—it's not calming.

Finally, when you just “take deep breaths”, you keep thinking about the situation at hand, making it harder for you to calm down.

But that doesn’t mean that breathing exercises in general are bad - quite the contrary.

After I spent weeks and weeks studying what helps the calmest people in the world stay calm in the midst of chaos, I discovered a technique that worked exceptionally well in stressful situations.

This technique is regularly used by Navy Seals, so you can imagine how well it has to work.

It’s called Box Breathing, and it’s super simple.

You can use it whenever you feel like you’re losing control and want to calm yourself down, instead of regular deep breaths or counting to 10.

Here’s how it works:

Inhale slowly for 4 seconds

Hold your breath for 4 seconds

Exhale slowly for 4 seconds

And hold empty lungs for 4 seconds

Rinse and repeat

As you do this, count in your mind - 1, 2, 3, 4.

You can also take longer breaths than 4 seconds, making your counting slightly slower, but don’t overcomplicate your life. Counting to 4 is all you need.

Try it out right now. See what happens.

Now, here’s why this technique works so well:

It puts you back in control of your breath

By slowing down your breathing, you release the stress and calm down your mind

You also distract your mind from your thoughts when you’re counting to 4

Within a few rounds of box breathing, you’ll feel much more relaxed and composed.

And the best part?

You can use this technique anytime you feel scared or on the verge of panic, whether it's before a challenging interview or during rock climbing if you're afraid of heights.

It works.

It also works beautifully for kids with ADHD. If they’re open to it, you can say “Let’s count a box together: breathe in 1-2-3-4…” and make a square shape in the air with your finger.

So, go on, try it out right now…

And try it again next time you want to calm yourself down.