Yesterday, you learned about the Box Breathing technique that can help you stay calm in stressful situations.

But that’s just the tip of the iceberg.

Your breath - a tool you use every single day, 24/7, is one of the most effective tools you can use to become a calmer, stress-resistant parent.

Once you change your breathing patterns, everything becomes easier - you’ll be able to be much more relaxed, calm and composed on a daily basis.

This means you’ll be far less likely to “lose it” and yell at your kids - and when they really do try to push your buttons, you’ll be able to stay calm for much longer.

Breathing is a lost art, and there are hundreds of different breathing techniques that you can learn. James Nestor revealed many of them in his best-selling book Breath, which I highly recommend every parent to read.

Unfortunately, many of these techniques do require a daily commitment to practice, and I know how hard it is for you to find extra time in your day when you’re already overworked and overwhelmed.

You just might not have the time to sit down and do breathing exercises for 30 minutes a day… And you actually don’t have to.

Instead, you can use a very simple shift in your breathing to get all the calming benefits without investing any extra time at all.

You can do that by using what I call the Zen Breath.

I discovered it when I field-tested hundreds of breathing techniques. This one stood out to me because of how simple and how effective it is.

It’s inspired by the Ujjayi Breath - a breathing pattern Yoga practitioners use to stay calm and relax their bodies during extremely challenging yoga poses.

Here’s how it works:

Step #1: STOP breathing through your mouth

We’re used to breathing through our mouths - especially when things get hard, when we’re hiking, when we’re out of breath…

And also when we start getting angry, nervous, or out of control.

Mouth breathing increases the stress response in the body, especially in kids and adults with ADHD. It fuels fight-or-flight instead of calming it.

So, the first thing you can do is just stop breathing through your mouth.

Step #2: Breathe through your nose instead

The second step is to get used to breathing through your nose instead.

This might feel unlogical at first - because you might have a stuffy nose, or because you’re just not used to it.

Think of this as taking 1 step back to go 5 steps forward.

Step #3: Breathe through your throat instead of your nostrils

Once I started testing nose-breathing, I quickly discovered that it became more difficult the more physically or stressed out I was.

Especially when I felt like I was out of breath, I tried to take deep breaths through my nose, but my body just didn’t seem like it was getting all the air that it needed.

It wasn’t relaxing - it was stressful.

That’s when I discovered the Zen Breath.

When you breathe through your nose, and especially when you want to take deeper breaths (for example, when using Box Breathing), don’t pull the air into your lungs by engaging your nostrils.

Instead, keep breathing through your nose, but engage your throat instead. You can even contract your throat slightly so that you hear a slight hum of the air running through it.

Try it out right now.

Take a few slow, deep inhales and exhales through your nose… Use your throat to push the air in and out… And notice how much more relaxed, calm and in control you immediately feel.

Congratulations, you just used the Zen Breath for the first time.

Now, all you need to do is, whenever you catch yourself breathing through your mouth, gently bring yourself back to the Zen Breath.

Within a week or two, it will become automatic for you.

You’ll notice you’ll be much calmer daily… And you also won’t get tired as often.

You don’t need to dedicate any additional time to this technique in your schedule.

You can practice it while going for a walk, while driving your kids to school, while doing the dishes…

At any point in your day.

So go on, try it out - and let me know how it went by responding to this e-mail.