You’ve probably heard of the “Body and Mind Connection”.

This isn’t a buzzword.

Our minds and bodies are more connected than most people think.

Think about it…

When you experience angry or negative thoughts, or you’re under mental stress…

What happens to your body?

Parts of your body tense up - your shoulders, your back, your neck, your stomach, your thighs… they feel much more firm and tense.

And what happens when you feel uncomfortable and tense in your body?

You tend to have more negative thoughts.

The stress also tends to build up in your body over time, which is why you’ll feel more and more pain and discomfort whenever you’re experiencing a particularly stressful period of your life.

You’ll feel tense, snappy, and like you’re unable to relax all the time.

It’s a vicious cycle, and today, I’m going to show you how to break it.

If you went for a massage and felt more relaxed after it, you have already experienced the Mind & Body Connection.

You released the tension from your body, and your mind was able to become more relaxed as well.

The good news is that you don’t need to schedule a weekly massage appointment to become calmer and relaxed.

Instead, you can use a technique called Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR).

By contracting and then relaxing your muscles, one by one, you’ll release physical tension from your body, which will help you de-stress.

You can use PMR at any time - in the comfort of your own home, or whenever you’re starting to feel stressed out.

It doesn’t require any extra time in your schedule, though if you wish to practice it on a daily basis, as part of your morning, after-work or evening routine, you absolutely can.

If you’d like to experience a 15-minute guided muscle relaxation (to see how it works), you can do so by listening to this video.

Then, go through the following steps whenever you feel tension in your body.

You can follow along as you read through the steps below to experience what PMR feels like, and you’ll be more relaxed by the time you finish reading this e-mail:

1. Scan your body from top to bottom: Notice which parts of your body feel particularly tense or tight. Then, go through the following steps for the parts of your body that feel more tense than others.

2. Feet & Legs: Tighten and release your toes (you can point them down and flex them), your calves, and your hamstrings. Tighten for a few seconds, then release & relax.

3. Bottom & Back: Tense & relax your glutes. Round your back as much as you can. Then stretch your back as much as you can.

4. Stomach & Chest: Tense & relax your chest muscles, upper abs, lower abs, and side abs.

5. Arms & Hands: Clench your hands into fists, bend your arm and tense your biceps, extend your arm and tense your triceps.

6. Shoulders & Neck: Lift your shoulders as high as they can go, then lower them down as low as they can go. Lean your head back as far as it goes, then lower it down as far as it goes. Look left, look right. Tilt your head left and right.

7. Face: Open your mouth as wide as you can. Poke your tongue out as far as you can. Put your tongue to the roof of your mouth as hard as you can. Clench your teeth slightly. Close your eyes as tightly as you can. Raise your eyebrows as high as you can.

8. Whole Body: Take one slow, deep breath. Count to 4. Then, when you feel like you can’t breathe in anymore, try to breathe in a bit more. Hold your breath, count to 4. Slowly breathe out - count to 4. Take a few moments to notice just how differently you feel.

You don’t have to go through the whole sequence every day.

Whenever you feel a bit tense in a part of your body… Just use that part of the sequence to instantly release tension, relax and instantly feel more calm.

PMR is also great for kids with ADHD who struggle to “calm their body.”

You can walk them through a silly version: “Let’s pretend we’re squeezing lemons with our toes! Now let go.” They’ll often join in if you make it playful. Even just squeezing and releasing fists or shoulders can interrupt the stress loop.