When everything feels like too much and you just need a way out, you can use redirection.

This technique is especially effective for kids with ADHD, who often struggle to stop or slow down.

To de-escalate the conflict, redirect their attention to something else - something that interests them or excites them.

This will help you regain control of the situation and help them go from emotionally overwhelmed to calm and thinking.

It works because the brains of children with ADHD respond quickly to novelty or interest-based shifts. Their emotional storm often clears the moment you introduce something they want to focus on.


For younger kids, you can use the following ideas:

If your child likes firefighters, and you hear a siren, you can say, “Can you hear that siren? Can you guess what it is? Is it the police, ambulance, or a fire brigade?”

If they love nature and animals, you can say, “Hey, I wonder what our dog is doing. Should we go check up on him?” or “You know what, let’s take a break. Let’s go into the garden and see if we can find some new plants or animals!”

If they love art, music, or dancing, ask them, “Hey, why don’t we go and paint something?” or “Why don’t you choose some music we can play and then we can sing and dance to it.”

Don’t worry if the redirect feels rough at first. It doesn’t matter.

As long as your child is genuinely interested in something (even if you personally are not), they won’t be able to resist talking or thinking about it.

Plus, because you’ve shown an interest in their lives, this will bring you closer together.

And if your child tends to “hyperfixate” on one topic, use that to your advantage. Their favourite animals, games, or characters are goldmines for redirection moments.

For older kids and teenagers, ask them about things they can’t resist talking about:

If they love Vikings, say something like: “Looks like we won’t be able to reach an agreement today. Tell me something about Vikings instead.” If they hesitate, ask them a more specific question, like: “Who is your favourite Viking?” or “What do you find most interesting about the Vikings?”

If they love rock climbing, say something like: “I remembered we never talked about your last climbing trip/practice. How did it go?” and then follow up with questions like: “What was your favourite route? How did it go? Can you show me?” or “Are there any climbing competitions you want us to watch in the near future? Who are you rooting for?”

If they love cosmetics or makeup, say something like: “I know you like watching YouTube videos about makeup. What do you like so much about them? Who is your favourite YouTuber? Why?” or “If you could make any sort of makeup on yourself, what would it look like? Do you want to go try it out?”

You can take things a step further and actually engage with them in the activity they love. Go climbing together. Watch a documentary about Vikings. Watch a few YouTube videos together and ask curious questions about them.

Movement-based and visual activities will reset their nervous system while you reconnect.

Within seconds of using redirection, your child’s shoulders will relax. They’ll start lowering their defences. They’ll start to calm down.

Within minutes, they’ll forget that it happened, and your day won’t be ruined.

Of course, you can still resolve the situation in the future to avoid any open loops - but you can do that once everyone is calm (remember The Magic Word, The Next Day Rule, and Reconnection Protocol - wait for another day, and create a conversation you can learn from).

Next time your child is throwing a fit, try out Redirection.

To make it even easier, you can take 2 minutes right now to list at least 3 things your child is enthusiastic about and craft some potential questions to ask, so you’ll already be prepared when it happens.

Try this out, and let me know how it went by responding to this e-mail.
