 
When your child resists cooperation, it’s usually out of two reasons – they either can’t do it or they won’t do it.

In the past two weeks, you've learned how to handle situations where your kids won't cooperate, regardless of the reason.

If they don’t wanna do it right now…. You can try offering them Two Good Choices.

If they don’t wanna do it exactly like you envisioned they would… consider applying Logical Consequences.

Or if they are just having an off day and they need a little encouragement to get things going, Smart Negotiation can come in handy.

You’re already well-equipped to handle these scenarios without resorting to yelling.

However, what we sometimes forget is that they might not be refusing to comply just to defy us…

… but because they need a little help.

So, the solution here is pretty simple.

When they’re procrastinating on a task, just ask them: “Is there any way I could help you?”

By asking this question, you address the possibility that they don’t know how to tackle the task at hand.

If that's the case, be their guide.

Take the time to show them a step-by-step tutorial.

For instance, if the problem is doing laundry, walk them through separating laundry by colour and fabric type, operating the washing machine, and folding and storing clothes.

If they struggled with setting up the dinner table, show them how to place a clean tablecloth or placemats, put dinner plates at each seat, arrange a fork on the left, a knife and spoon on the right of each plate, and add a napkin beside or on top of each plate.

If they need help with cleaning the bathroom, instruct them on how to gather cleaning supplies like a scrub brush, toilet bowl cleaner, and surface cleaner. Then, show them how to scrub and clean the toilet, wipe down the sink and countertops, clean the mirrors, and mop the floor.

For children with ADHD, breaking tasks into micro-steps is key.  You may need to model the first step, then have them try the second while you watch, and repeat the process a few times.

It may take a bit longer, but you're equipping them with valuable life skills.

For extra support, you can create visuals of steps for each task or download our Happy Task Card here.

If you make a habit of asking “How can I help you?” whenever your child procrastinates, avoids a task, or tries to negotiate their way out of it, you can:

Pinpoint where the problem lies.

Teach your child how to articulate their needs and feelings.

Make the conversation positive and collaborative.

This question also builds trust.

Kids with ADHD often hide that they’re confused or overwhelmed.

“How can I help you?” opens the door for honesty without shame.
