There are 3 types of yelling: Good, bad, and unconscious.

Good yelling occurs when you yell in a dangerous, potentially life-or-death situation (i.e., when your child is crossing the road but doesn’t see an approaching car).

Bad yelling happens every time your kids don’t listen, but there’s a better, calmer solution available (you’ll be able to stop the bad yelling as you go through this challenge).

Finally, there’s unconscious yelling. It’s one of the most common types of yelling, and it can be easily avoided with a little bit of patience. It is entirely unnecessary and so subtle that many parents aren’t even aware they are doing it.

The unconscious yelling occurs in all the situations where you’re physically too far from your kids to be able to use quiet speech.

For example:

When they’re in the backyard of your house while you’re inside…

While they’re at the playground…

Or while they’re in their room / upstairs / in the basement / checking out a toy in a store.

Most parents wouldn’t consider yelling “IT’S DINNER TIME!!!” from the kitchen, so their kids can hear them in their rooms, harmful…

Especially if their kids respond and immediately race to the dining room.

It’s so habitual that most parents don’t even realize it - that’s why I call it unconscious yelling.

But unconscious yelling IS harmful to your family - more than you’d think - because of 3 reasons.

Let me explain…

#1 - It sets the default tone of communication in your family

Most parents use unconscious yelling 5-10 times per day (don’t believe me? Keep track of it for a day and see for yourself).

As kids are amazingly good at mirroring adults, they’ll receive a signal that it’s okay if you yell… And that it’s okay if they yell back at you.

This sets a bad example for the whole family, and distracts everyone else in your home that’s trying to enjoy some peace and quiet, or concentrate on what they’re working on.

But there’s more…

#2 - If your kids don’t hear you, it’s often not their fault

Sometimes, they’re just too far away from you to hear you clearly (so they’ll yell back “WHAT?!?!?!?”)...

Or, if your home has great sound insulation or thick doors, they really won’t hear you… (and you’ll get frustrated and angry because you think they’re ignoring you).

The same is true if they’re listening to music, on a phone call, using noise-cancellation headphones, concentrating on a video game they’re playing, or even doing their homework.

This happens even more often with children with ADHD. Their brains can hyperfocus so deeply that they literally don’t register background noise or speech.


In short, more often than you think, it’s really not their fault that they can’t hear you, and you have to keep yelling at them over and over again, until you angrily storm into their room.

#3 - In case there’s a disagreement, it quickly turns into a yelling battle

Finally, even if they DO hear you… But they’re not ready to cooperate with you, or they’d like to negotiate with you (all of which we’ll cover later in the program)...

There’s very little chance you’ll be able to avoid a full-blown yelling battle, which could be avoided if you were closer to them…

Just think about how this situation would end if your kid is in their room, and you yell at them:

You: “DINNER IS READY!”

Them (option 1): No response

Them (option 2): “I’M NOT HUNGRY!!!”

Neither of those situations would end well, right?

Well, the good news is that with today’s ADHD No-Yelling Tool, you’ll be able to avoid these situations, which you might encounter daily altogether.

You’ll be able to do that by using the No-Yelling Policy.

This very technique is one of the main reasons why you’ll never hear anyone yell in our house, even though it’s a fairly large two-story house with a garden and a backyard.

We simply have a rule - if you need to talk to someone, if it’s not an emergency, come into their “talking distance”.

This means that we don’t yell when dinner is ready…

When the postman or food delivery is at the door…

Or when we need help from one of our family members.

Now, to be completely frank, if you’re USED to yelling all the time… This shift will take some getting used to.

Especially because it will require you to slow down and take a bit more time… But it’s well worth it.

Here’s what I mean:

For example, when dinner is ready, you might need to walk into every family member’s room and notify them (realistic cost: 1-2 minutes).

Yes, that can be less convenient than if they just showed up… But look on the bright side - you’re getting some daily exercise in.

Yes, the food might be cold once you serve it…

But you can plan for that next time, and simply leave your food in the oven / on the stove and get everyone 5 minutes BEFORE it’s ready…

OR, you can look at it this way - if it’s important to your family members that the food is hot/warm, they’ll quickly pick up on your patterns and make it a priority to be a few minutes early next time.

But realistically, nobody will die if dinner isn’t scorching hot. And some people just care more about this than others - it’s okay to let them make their own decision.

But the good news is that these slight “negative” side effects are far inferior to the benefits you’ll get from not yelling in your home all the time.

There will be a lot less stress, way fewer yelling battles, and your patience won’t be tested as much.

Children with ADHD especially benefit from this approach. When you come closer, speak quietly, and give them time to shift attention, their brain doesn’t feel hijacked. They’re much more likely to respond calmly.

In fact, many parents who successfully implemented this policy in their homes told me it trained them to become more patient and self-aware, and wished they would have found out about it much earlier.

That’s why I encourage you to start using it today. Just test it out for a week and see what happens. You might be surprised.

Now, before you run back to the “real world”, there are two additional tips I have for you to get the most out of this strategy:

1. Once you come into the “talking distance”, remember to use the Quiet Speech / Shoulder Tap (see Day 1 and Day 2). These work really well with this strategy.

2. Don’t just use this strategy with your kids… Use it with your partner as well. In fact, you can use most of the ADHD No-Yelling Tools you’ll master through this challenge with your partner, or even with co-workers. They work like a charm.

Finally, remember that the goal right now is to get your kids to listen without yelling.

You’re at the first part of your journey, take things one step at a time - you won’t become a “perfect” parent overnight… But you can get 1% better every day.

So be kind to yourself, and patient with yourself.

If your kids still don’t cooperate with you, or you don’t know how to negotiate with them, or if they don’t follow the instructions you give them, that’s okay - you still did an amazing job avoiding a yelling battle in the first place.

I’ll help you solve other pieces of the parenting puzzle in the future - either in this challenge, or future challenges you’ll be able to participate in.

So go on, give yourself a pat on the back for making it through the first few days of the challenge, living up to your commitment, and working on becoming the best parent you can become for your kids…
