Today, you’ll learn how to stop nagging and repeating yourself.

Instead, after you use the 3-Step Education technique just 3 times, your kids will follow your instructions the FIRST time you say something (not the 10th).

To do that, you’ll first stop using what I call 7-Step Education.

This is the situation where you repeat yourself over and over again…

At first, nicely and calmly, then a bit more impatiently and loudly, until finally, you “lose it” and scream at the top of your lungs with the hope that your kids will FINALLY do what you asked them to do.

7-Step Education looks something like this…

“Mum, can I turn on the TV?"

"Yes, you can, just make sure it's not too loud." (Step 1)

(volume is too loud)

“Can you please turn the volume down a bit?” (Step 2)

(nothing happens)

“I said, can you keep the volume down?” (Step 3)

(still, nothing changes)

“Don’t ignore me when I’m talking to you!” (Step 4)

(of course, your child ignores you)

“Don’t make me come over there!” (Step 5)

(radio silence)

“This is your last warning! Turn the volume down immediately or I’ll do it myself!” (Step 6)

(your child stares at you but does nothing.)

“I’VE HAD ENOUGH! WHY CAN’T YOU DO WHAT YOU’RE TOLD TO DO? WHY DO WE ALWAYS HAVE TO FIGHT? THAT’S IT, NO MORE TV FOR YOU TODAY!!!” (Step 7)

(you see the shock on their face as you storm towards them, take the remote out of their h,ands and turn off the TV. You know what follows…)

First, commit to yourself - you’ll never let it get to step 7. Ever.

The more you repeat yourself (and don’t act), the more your kids will expect this to happen… And the more likely they are to keep ignoring you.

They’re smart - they know if you always repeat the same thing 7 times, you’ll do it again…

So it’s logical they don’t feel any urgency to listen to you the first time you say something.

They’re just sitting there and waiting to see what happens.

Instead, you can now replace 7-Step Education with 3-Step Education.

Here’s how it works:

STEP 1: Give a Clear Instruction

STEP 2: Explain Logical Consequences (if they ignore your instruction)

STEP 3: Take Immediate Action (if they ignore step 2)

For even better implementation, add a visual or timer cue alongside your words. For example, holding up three fingers while you give the steps or using a 3-minute sand timer during transitions.

This technique is especially powerful for children with ADHD, who often struggle with following multi-step commands or processing vague language.

The 3-Step Education gives their brain clarity and predictability.

The first few times you use this strategy, you might need to use 2-3 steps.

But within 1-2 weeks, just using the first step (giving a clear instruction) will be enough, as your child’s brain will complete the rewiring process.

Let’s break this strategy down further.

Step #1: Give a Clear Instruction

Let’s revisit the previous situation.

Can you spot what’s wrong with the instruction that was given to the child?

"Yes, you can, just make sure it's not too loud."

Study it and see what you can come up with.

What could you improve?

.

.

.

.

.

What did you come up with?

Well, while at first glance the instruction seems just fine, there are two subtle problems with it:

Problem #1: Your child doesn’t know what’s “too loud”. Is that volume 15, 30, or 60 on the remote?

Problem #2: What’s “too loud” for you might not be “too loud” for them. If you don’t want to enter a negotiation battle, you shouldn’t let your child choose - you should decide what’s acceptable for you at the moment.

That’s why this is a Vague Instruction.

Vague instructions include words like “soon”, “lower”, “later”, “a little bit”...

And they often confuse your children, especially if today’s “low volume” is different than yesterday’s “low volume”.

So, avoid vague terms and replace them with clear numbers, times, or steps they can visualize or repeat.

In this scenario, a Clear Instruction would be:

"Yes, you can, but please put the volume to 15.”

There’s nothing vague or confusing about this - the volume is either 15 or it isn’t.

Here are some additional examples of vague and clear instructions:

Vague: “Dinner will be ready soon!”

Clear: “Please come to the dining room for dinner in 15 minutes.”

*Clear+ ADHD-Friendly: set a kitchen timer and say “Come when the timer rings” to help ADHD kids transition without arguments.

Vague: “You can play video games for a bit if you’d like to.”

Clear: “You can play video games until 6 pm.”

*Clear+ ADHD-Friendly: Use a visual timer or phone alarm set to go off at 6:00. Say, “When the timer rings, it’s time to stop. That waytheir brain doesn’t have to keep track of the time.

Vague: “We’ll go to the park later.”

Clear: “We’ll go to the park after I shower and change. Please put on a fresh t-shirt and shorts and be ready at the door in 30 minutes if you’d like to go.”

Clear+ ADHD-Friendly: Help your child with ADHD visualize the steps: “You’ll need to change, pack your water bottle, and be at the door when the kitchen timer rings.” You can even draw a 3-step checklist on a sticky note.

Important: When you give clear instructions, it’s important that you follow through with them.

Only give instructions / make promises you’re willing to commit to. Don’t say “We’ll go to the park at 6,” and be ready by 7.

If you let your child play video games for 1 hour, that’s 1 hour - not 45 minutes, not 65 minutes. You can give them a gentle reminder at 50 minutes to let them know they have 10 minutes left, but that’s it.

Visual timers or countdown apps work great here - ADHD brains struggle to feel time passing unless they can see it.

One last thing: When you give a Clear Instruction, don’t forget about Quiet Speech, Shoulder Tap and No-Yelling Policy!

Step #2: Explain Logical Consequences

If your kids aren’t used to following your instructions, you’ll need to give them some time to get used to it, but you shouldn’t cut them slack.

Kids with ADHD HATE inconsistency and thrive on predictability.

That’s why how you give instructions (and the steps that follow if they don’t follow them) should be consistent, immediate, and clear.

If they choose to ignore your instruction, they have to experience what I call Logical Consequences. This should happen within 15 seconds of giving the instruction.

Don’t mistake this with threats or punishments.

These are gentle but firm boundaries that teach kids what follows as a consequence if they choose to ignore you, and that doing that is not acceptable.

But the choice of what they do is ultimately theirs, just like it’s your choice to not show up to work in the morning and deal with the consequences if you don’t.

Just like instructions, Logical Consequences should be clear and specific.

For example:

“I told you to put the volume down to 15 if you wanted to watch TV, but you decided not to. Should I show you how to do it or will you do it yourself? If you don’t do it, I will turn off the TV and you will not be able to watch it any more today.”

Clear, specific, and simple.

Notice how you’re also giving them a way out in case they genuinely don’t know how to put the volume down, so you’re not blaming them for something they just don’t know how to do.

Now, the choice is theirs - either they turn down the volume, you can show them how to do it, or you’ll turn off the TV.

Those are the only 3 options that are acceptable for you.

In some cases, Logical Consequences will be harsher, in others, they will be less, but in either case, they should be appropriate for the situation.

It’s important to let your kids experience them so they can learn from them, as they’ll have to do this in order to function well in life.

Here are some additional examples of Logical Consequences.

Clear Instruction: “Breakfast is ready. Please come and eat within the next 5 minutes so we’re not late for school.”

Logical Consequences (in this case, set a kitchen or phone timer for 5 minutes and explain Logical Consequences to them when the alarm goes off): “Ok, time is up! If you don’t want to eat your breakfast, that’s fine. But I won’t pack it for you. This means you’ll be hungry until your lunch break. You might get more tired and won’t have the energy for sports. Would you like to have your breakfast or would you prefer to go to school hungry today?”

Notice you’re giving them the choice - and whatever the choice they make, they’ll have to experience the consequences.

It’s important to let them do that every time.

You should never make an empty threat you’re not willing to follow through with.

You should not pack their breakfast to go.

If they go to school hungry, that’s on them.

It might be a good idea to do that 1 or 2 times, but sooner or la,ter they’ll realize that it’s better that they’re not hungry.

They’ll connect the dots between “I’m not at breakfast on time”, “I don’t get to eat until lunch,” and “I don’t want to be hungry again, so I’ll eat my breakfast”.

Let’s look over another example.

Clear Instruction: “It’s time to brush your teeth and get ready for bed. Please go to the bathroom.”

Logical Consequences: “If you don’t brush your teeth before bed, you’ll go to bed with a bad taste in your mouth. It won’t feel nice. You might not be able to sleep as well. If you don’t brush your teeth before bed regularly, you’ll develop cavities. That means you’ll have to go to the dentist to fix them when your teeth start to hurt. That might be stressful and painful. Unfortunately, because that’s a consequence of the decision you made, you’ll have to live with the consequence. You’ll have to pay for the fillings out of your pocket money. It typically costs about $100 per cavity. Would you prefer to brush your teeth or go to the dentist and pay for it yourself?”

This is all you need to do. Explain the consequences, give them a choice, and make them live with it. You can do this in a firm but calm way.

Here’s one final example where you can combine the instructions and consequences.

Clear Instruction+Logical Consequences: “We’re going to see the new Spiderman in 15 minutes. If you want to have enough time to buy the popcorn and not miss the movie, please be ready to leave on time. If you’re more than 15 minutes late, we will have to go at another time, but it won’t be this week.”

This one is really simple. They can choose not to get the popcorn or be late to the movie (it’s not the end of the world if that happens, so don’t stress about it). They can choose to be more than 15 minutes late and not see the movie.

It will only need to happen once - next time, they’ll be ready on time.

Step #3: Take Immediate Action

The last step is simple.

No nagging, no repeating yourself, no pleading. Just act.

If they don’t put the TV volume down… Turn off the TV.

If they don’t eat their breakfast, pack it for their own lunch, get ready, and drive them to school.

If they don’t get ready for the cinema on time, don’t buy them popcorn, be late to the movie, or skip the movie for a week.

Now, be warned.

The first few times this happens, your kids are very likely to throw a tantrum or have a meltdown. This is especially true for children with ADHD, who may feel emotionally flooded when routines change or limits are enforced more firmly than before.

They might say, “It’s not fair,” or try to negotiate with you.

Here, it’s important to do three things:

Stay calm (we have a whole set of Instant Relaxation Triggers ready for you in the challenge, but for now, simply say to yourself, “This will pass” and power through it).

Acknowledge that this will only happen 1-2 times per situation (once your kids understand Logical Consequences and that you’re serious about them, they’ll start following your instructions).

Whatever you do, don’t yell (you’re not trying to get them to follow instructions the first time around. You’re not trying to avoid a tantrum or a meltdown. Your goal is to stay calm, be firm, set boundaries, and not yell)

Once you go through this process a few times, your child’s brain will slowly begin the rewiring process, and within 1-2 weeks, you’ll notice that in at least 80% of the cases, they’ll follow your instructions the first time you give them.

Plus, don’t forget to celebrate small wins - each moment of listening the first time deserves a high five, token, or sticker (you can download our Happiness Token System HERE). That tiny feedback boosts their motivation to try again.

That’s it for today.

Go and use the 3-Step Education strategy next time you give an instruction, and reply to this e-mail to let me know what happened.
