Many of my favourite work memories come from summer camps that I led for 20+ years.

From sunny beach camps to camping trips in the woods…

We had a lot of fun with the kids doing things they never thought they would do, and created pleasant childhood memories.

During those camps, when I asked the kids what they wanted to do, they would come up with many “crazy” requests.

One hot summer day, a group of adolescent boys told me they wanted to make an explosion and blow up some rocks.

I said to them, “Hmm, I’m not sure about blowing up rocks as we don’t want to damage the environment… But I’m sure we can come up with a way to make an explosion. How could we make something explode?”

One of the kids mentioned that they saw a YouTube video of a big Mentos and Coca-Cola explosion.

I was sure we could perform the experiment in a safe way, so I went to the store and bought a few different-sized bottles of Coca-Cola and a couple of bags of Mentos candy.

Then, we created a “safety protocol” to make sure nobody got hurt during our experiment.

We blocked off the “no-walking” zone…

Played a loud siren sound to make sure everybody knew that the experiment was starting…

Decided who was responsible for preparing what, who would clean up the mess, and how…

And got to work.

We then started with the smallest bottle and progressively moved on to bigger ones.

We guessed how high up into the air each explosion would go…

We decided how we would measure it…

And with each explosion, there was a bigger and bigger anticipation.

Because we created a safety protocol, everything went smoothly.

We all had an unforgettable day.

To be honest, when the 2-litre bottle exploded and sent the Coca-Cola soaring high into the sky, it was an exhilarating experience for everyone, including the adults!

To this day, when I see these (now grown-up) kids on the street, we always remember the beautiful moments we had together.

As a parenting coach, I use the “Yes, But How?” strategy consistently to build trust with the kids that I work with.

You see, most of my “work” with them doesn’t happen at the dining table.

I know I need to occupy their bodies, hands, and minds with something that they enjoy doing, something that relaxes them. This way, the brains of neurodivergent children are more open to connection and cooperation.

So we often build remote-control airplanes, full-size river boats, and rockets they can launch up into the sky.

As we’re doing this, I get to know them and build trust with them, so I can quickly go from being a stranger to someone they listen to and cooperate with.

Over the past few days, we went over many “quick fixes” that will help you get your kids to listen in the moment and stop yelling.

But if you want them to cooperate with you in the long run, you need to become an authority in your family.

When I say an authority, I mean a role model that they can look up to, just like they might look up to Thor, Spider,man or another favourite superhero of theirs.

You can do that by paying genuine interest in their lives…

Doing the things they love…

And helping them become the person THEY (not you) want to become.

All of these give you “authority points”.

All of these loosen their defences.

All of these remove the need to throw tantrums because things aren’t going their way or because they don’t get the attention or feel misunderstood.

Saying NO to them every day, multiple times per day… Unfortunately takes those points away.

If they go to school and come home, and all they get from you is “Do your homework!” “Eat your dinner!” and “Take out the trash”, their emotional tank will slowly become more and more empty.

Especially because the emotional regulation of children with ADHD depends heavily on connection, novelty, and perceived fairness.

They don’t want to have a life like that. They want to have fun.

If their emotional tank stays empty, they’ll misbehave, withdraw from you, get angry at you and start hanging out with people that “get” them and “care” about them - either in the real world, or through video games where they connect with other kids.

If you don’t want that to happen…

If you want to build a strong bond with your kids and make cooperation so much easier…

Then I highly recommend that you start using the Yes, But How? strategy daily.

It’s very simple:

Every time your kids ask for something, instead of saying NO, YES, But How?

Think (or talk) about the outcome they want to achieve (in our previous example, this was a big, loud explosion).

Now, ask THEM how else they can achieve that outcome in a safe way.

Let THEM come up with ideas first… And then, perhaps, if they’re stuck, you can add some additional ideas.

If you don’t have any ideas, simply say, “Give me 30 minutes and I’ll get back to you. In the meantime, let’s both think about how we could make this happen”.

For kids with ADHD, this collaborative approach gives them a sense of autonomy, creativity, and shared purpose.

It shifts them from resisting limits to engaging in problem-solving … something their brains often crave when it's tied to novelty or movement.

As a modern parent, you have a big advantage over me. You can simply ask Google and YouTube for recommendations on DIY projects you can do at home – everything from marble races, and domino experiments to safe chemistry tests you can do with tools available from your home or the nearest DIY store.

If you’ve never done any of this before, it might take some time to get good at it. It’s a skill that you have to develop.

But luckily, your partners will be the most creative people in the world… Your kids.

Listen to their ideas. Find ways to make them happen. Let THEM take the initiative and do the thinking, planning, and problem-solving.

You can even write down their plan step-by-step or sketch it out together, so they stay organized and follow through.

Some of the experiments will fail and teach your kids a valuable lesson…

All of them will make them more patient…

And all of them will bring you closer together, making it easier to function as a happy family.

So go on, for one week, replace “NO” with “Yes, But How?”.

See what happens, then let me know how it went by replying to this e-mail.