 
You and your kids are more alike than you think.

You tend to be much more irritable when you’re tired, hungry, or stressed out…

And so are they.

So, IF they don’t feel good… The LAST thing they’ll want to do is help you around the house or do their schoolwork.

It will feel like pulling teeth, and there’s no wonder they’ll resist it in any way you can.

That’s why you should pay attention to a few things BEFORE you ask your kids to do something:

Are they hungry? (If yes, make sure you have a protein snack ready for them)

Are they tired or sleepy? (If yes, make sure they take a nap or get some rest or alone time)

Are they in a bad mood? (If yes, LISTEN to them and let them express their emotions, hug them, let them cry, or do something you enjoy with them until they feel better)

For children with ADHD, checking these basics (food, rest, mood), before giving instructions is extremly important.

Their ability to regulate behaviour and emotions depends heavily on how well their brain and body are “fueled.” A quick protein snack or sensory break can make a huge difference.

This way, you can avoid a lot of unnecessary yelling battles.

There’s a time and space to teach your kids how to do difficult things EVEN when they’re tired or stressed out…

But if your family relationships aren’t in a great place, this is not the time and place to do so.

That’s why you should take care of their physical and emotional needs first, before “attacking” them with all the things you want them to do.

Then, after that’s done, and you have a much better starting point…

Sweeten The Deal.

To do that, you’ll LEAD with something they enjoy… And FOLLOW UP with something they enjoy a little bit less.

For example:

When you come back home from the grocery store, first give your kids one piece of their favourite candy…

(now they’re in a good mood and excited)

THEN kindly ask them if they want to help you put the groceries into the fridge or take out the dishes from the dishwasher (Two Good Choices).

Your goal is to give instructions to your kids when they’re in a happy, collaborative state - not the fight or flight state.

Starting with connection and enjoyment helps activate their ADHD brain’s reward system and makes them more willing to cooperate.

Here are a few things you can do to Sweeten The Deal:

Sweet Treats: Nothing beats the smell of freshly baked cookies or their favorite treats

Music, Singing and Dancing: Let your kids play their favorite music. Maybe even a little bit louder than usual. Even if you dislike it. You can sing and dance with them.

Favorite Shows: Let them watch their preferred TV show or YouTube channel.

Gamify: Turn household chores into a game: “I was able to put 15 glasses into the dishwasher last time around, maybe you can find a way to put 20?”

Competition: “Are you up for a friendly competition? I wonder which of us can vacuum faster. You can take the dining room, I’ll take the living room. The winner gets a surprise reward.”

Time Trial: “I’ve just set an alarm on my phone, but I won’t tell you when it goes off. Do you want to see if you can clean up all your toys before it rings?”

Race: “Uh oh, we need to take out the trash. How about we each grab two bags and see who can get there faster?”

Express Interest: Ask them to talk to you about something that they can’t stop talking about. Maybe it’s their favourite YouTuber, football team, or video game. Don’t judge them. Simply let them talk and ask them questions about it, really trying to learn from them.

A Hard Challenge: “I know I’ve said that you’re too young to help me fix my car… But I was thinking, today we can give it a shot?” (Of course, safety should be your top priority, but kids can often handle more than you might expect at a much earlier age than you’d think.)

Different “Sweets” work better on different kids. Try each of the above at least once, and see which ones they respond best to. Then use more of those in the future.

It will be more fun for you and for them to get work done around the house with this approach. Time will fly, and it won’t feel like a tedious chore.

And over time, as kids associate chores with good, positive feelings, they’ll become more inclined to do them independently, or even start challenging you to races.

You might even be able to do more than you thought you would be able to do this way.

If your kid is excitedly talking to you about the superhero movie they just saw, they can put the dishes out of the dishwasher, help you do the laundry, and maybe even iron with you for a while…

The same goes for listening to music and watching TV shows. It’ll be in their interest to keep doing something they enjoy, so they’re more likely to keep helping you out along the way.

Now, as you start Sweetening The Deal, there’s one final twist…

50% of the time, there should be NO FOLLOW-UP initiated from your side.

Sometimes, just invite your kids to dance with you. Or tell you about your day. Or watch their favourite TV show with you. Nothing else.

Other times, use this opportunity to do some chores together with them.

This way, they won’t start to think “Oh no, this is a trap…”, they’ll see that sometimes positive things are just positive things, and sometimes they’re an opportunity to do something that would otherwise feel boring.