For the kids that want something NOW, or they throw a fit when they don’t get what they want…

There’s a great strategy that you can use to teach them how to become more patient…

You can help them learn the difference between NEEDS and WANTS…

And it will save you from buying many toys and gadgets that your kids want in the moment, but forget about the next day.

The strategy is called The 48-Hour Rule, and here’s how it works.

When you’re at a store and your kid wants to get a toy that you don’t think they’ll use…

Say something like this:

“I understand you want this right now. But I want to make sure you really, really want it and value it if I buy it for you. So I propose a deal. Let’s wait for 48 hours. The toy will still be there by then. In 48 hours, it’s your job to remind me that you still want it. If that’s the case, we’ll go and get it. I won’t remind you, though; this is your responsibility. If you realize that you don’t want it anymore, that’s okay as well.”

This works well for everything from clothes to gadgets to toys.

It’s important that you don’t remind them in 48 hours, though. Don’t ask them if they still want the toy. Don’t take them to the store. If it’s important enough for them, they’ll be the ones to remind you and arrange everything.

Giving a little pause gives kids with ADHD a chance for their impulse to pass and their thinking brain to catch up. The delay helps them develop internal regulation and long-term thinking.

And if you do end up buying it… Because they had to put more effort into getting it, they’ll value it much more than if they just got it instantly.

Now, this strategy works really well for smaller purchases within your budget.

For bigger purchases that might be out of your budget, you can combine the 48-Hour Rule with the Yes, But How? approach.

In that case, the conversation would go like this:

“I understand that you really want this phone at the moment. However, I want to ensure that you truly value it if I decide to buy it for you. So, here's a deal: let's wait for 48 hours. The phone will still be available by then. After 48 hours, it's your responsibility to remind me if you still want it. I won't remind you about it; this is your decision to make. If you discover that you no longer want it, that's perfectly fine too.

There’s one more thing, though. Unfortunately, this phone is out of my budget, but I can contribute 50% of the price if you wish to buy it for yourself. Within the next 48 hours, you can make a plan for obtaining the remaining 50%. You have several options: you can take it out of your savings account, deduct it from your pocket money in smaller instalments over the next few months, or come up with a plan to earn the required funds. In any case, if we do decide to purchase this together, we will create a contract outlining the precise payment terms and conditions, as well as what happens if they are not met.”

This approach will encourage them to think more carefully before they make an impulse purchase, teach them how to handle their money responsibly and think long and hard about how they spend it.

It might even help them develop an entrepreneurial mindset that will serve them further in life.

You can also write their savings goal or plan on a paper or whiteboard that they can see daily. This supports their weaker working memory and actually stick with their goals.

And you can use this opportunity to teach them about contracts, and create Logical Consequences if the terms and conditions aren’t met. If you do this, I encourage you to ask your kids “What do you think would be a fair penalty if each of us fails to follow through with this contract?”. They might surprise you with what they come up with.

Here’s a word of warning when you use this strategy, though…

Never go back on your word.

If you make a deal to come back in 2 days, make sure you have the time to do so.

If you said you would pay for something, do it. If you want your kids to trust you, you have to show them integrity.

If they live up to their end of the deal, you have to as well. Otherwise this will never work again.

The same actually applies to many other things in parenting.

If you said you’d pay attention to your kids in 5 minutes because you are on a phone call, it’s your job to actually set a timer for 5 minutes and wrap up the call. Not 6, not 10, not 30 minutes.

This kind of consistency is crucial for kids with ADHD. They need predictable patterns way more than words.

And when you explain Logical Consequences using 3-Step Education… You have to execute them.

This is the best approach to avoid confusing your kids and demonstrating that you follow through on your promises, which can earn you a lot of authority points.

Ok, that’s it for today.

Next time you’re in a store and your kids desperately want something… try The 48-Hour Rule. Then respond to this e-mail to let me know how it went.
