 
Your kids will often try to “negotiate” something they want…

“Just 10 more minutes!”
“I’ll do my homework tomorrow instead of today. I promise.”
“I will do anything if you get me this toy!”

And in general, there’s nothing wrong with that.

They are expressing that something is important… And they’re offering to do something in return.

And negotiation is an important skill in life that will help them secure a better salary, work benefits, etc. - so it’s a skill worth teaching them.

But with most parents I worked with, I noticed they could be negotiating with their kids in much more effective ways.

If you teach your kids how to become Smart Negotiators, you’ll often be able to avoid tantrums and meltdowns (because your default answer is NO)... AND get kids to do things they might not want to do.

Because kids with ADHD push back when they feel contr,led - but they step up when they feel it’s fair and they have a say.

So, instead of telling your kids “Eat your broccoli!” (which they’ll resist), OR even “You need to eat your broccoli before you get your dessert”... (which you also know doesn’t work very well), you can find a better way to negotiate.

Now, when it comes to Smart Negotiation, there are a few things you should know:

Both sides should offer something.

“Can I play my video game for 10 more minutes, please?” or “I’ll do my homework tomorrow instead of today” is not Smart Negotiation. They aren’t offering anything in return.

Not everything is negotiable.

Brushing their teeth before bed and doing their homework are non-negotiables and should be followed up with 3-Step Education (Logical Consequences).

But some things are negotiable - buying them an expensive toy or a video game they want, screen time, going to the amusement park… These are all things your child could “earn”.

One great way to know when you should negotiate (and when you shouldn’t) is to make a list of things you think are negotiable and things that aren’t.

You can also write those down (negotiable and non-negotiable deals), so they won’t have trouble remembering them.

No “gimmes”

One of the biggest parenting mistakes you can make is inconsistency.

If they can play video games for 30 minutes when you have a bad day and for 3 hours when you have a good day, your kids will think to themselves, “This isn’t fair. Yesterday it was 3 hours, today it’s 30 minutes!”. And they’ll do anything to get you to give in, testing your patience along the way.

That’s why kids need clear structure, rules, and boundaries - and, whenever possible, no “gimmies”.

Their part of the deal should happen BEFORE they get what they want.

“I promise I’ll take out the trash for the whole week” could lead to more conflicts if your kids tend to make empty promises.

They should offer something NOW, not the next day or the next week.

If they want to earn 30 more minutes of screen time, that’s fine… But they should do something BEFORE that happens.

Replace promises with contracts.

In some cases, like in a toy store, this will not be possible. In those cases, you should make an agreement with pre-defined Logical Consequences. Make them write down their part of the deal on a piece of paper and sign it.

“I, [NAME], agree to [THEIR PART OF THE DEAL] in order to get [WHAT THEY WANT]. If I do not do that before [DATE], I agree to [Logical Consequences].”

To make this easier, you can even ask them what “fair” Logical Consequences could be for them.

One trick you can use is to create a contract template, print it out on a small piece of paper, and carry one or two contracts around in your pocket, so you can pull them out and simply fill them out when you’re on the go.

Let THEM make an offer.

Don’t give in to the temptation to decide for them. Saying things like “Yes, you can play video games for 30 more minutes if you do the laundry” takes away their independence and creativity, and they’re much more likely to resist something that was your idea, not theirs.

Instead, make sure they’re constantly thinking about what they can do to earn what they want by offering a few options they can choose from.

For example: "Here are 10 things you could offer … what feels doable to you?"This activates their problem-solving brain without overwhelming them.

Then, use these 3 Smart Negotiation Phrases.

Now, when it’s time to negotiate, there are 3 phrases you can use to train your kids to be creative thinkers and smart negotiators.

“You might be able to convince me. What will you offer in return?”

When your child asks or begs for something negotiable, this should be your first line of defence. This sets the expectation that there are no “gimmies” and gets them to start thinking about how they can earn what they want.

“What do YOU think is fair?”

This phrase is great for things your kids don’t want to do, like eating broccoli. Ask them, “How much broccoli do you think it’s fair that you eat before you get your dessert?” They might say something like “10 bites!”, which will likely be more than you could “force” them to eat.

“Convince me.”

This phrase is short and simple… And it triggers their “thinking mode”. You don’t have to accept the first thing they say. Let them come up with persuasive arguments why you should get them what they want… Until they convince you.

If they struggle with this step, say, “Here, I’ll help you by giving you some things that are important to me…” and give them a list of things that are important to you, but your kids don’t want to do. This can be anything from household chores to schoolwork to participating in activities and projects that are important to you.

You can also write this list down in advance (put at least 10-20 items on it) and hand it to them to save it. This way, they can choose what they want to do, rather than be forced to do something.

These phrases help ADHD kids shift into thinking mode, rather than reacting. Don’t be afraid to pause and say, “Take a minute to think. I’ll wait.” Their brain may need that time to switch gears.

Enough talk, let’s take action.

Make a list of “negotiable” and “non-negotiable” activities…

Draft up a “negotiation contract” and print it out…

And come up with a list of things important to you that they can use as leverage in the negotiation process.

Then, use the 3 Smart Negotiation Phrases next time the opportunity arises… And make sure you try all 3 approaches to see what works best with your kids.

Let me know how it went by responding to this e-mail.
