 
Imagine your child’s anxiety just set in.

They might be afraid to do something new so they become upset…

They might resist going to school because they have tummy aches…

Or they might avoid their friend’s birthday party because of their social anxiety…

So, what should you do in these moments to help your child overcome their anxiety?

Most parents use three “anxiety-relief” methods… that are often proven to be ineffective.

Today, I’ll tell you what these methods are, why they don’t work with your child, and what to do instead.

Ineffective Anxiety-Relief Method #1: “Take a deep breath”

Your first instinct might be to tell your child to take a few deep breaths.

And if your child is compliant, they open their mouth to sob in more air, only to find their chest is too constricted so not much goes in… Which is scary, escalating the panic as your child wails, “I can’t breathe!”

And if you have a less compliant child, they tell you straight away that breathing doesn’t help (without even doing it).

And your child’s right.

It doesn’t help to simply tell your child to take a breath and expect for their anxiety to disappear.

When they are already breathing uncontrollably (or close to it), they can’t breathe effectively. This only escalates their fear.

And when it’s the first thing we say, it feels (to a frantic 5-year-old, 7-year-old, 12-year-old) hopelessly inadequate.

Think about the last time you were really worked up. How would you have responded if your partner met your sobbing (ranting, panicking, clenching) by telling you to breathe? “I am breathing, damn it!” It doesn’t really help.

And yet it does.

Not telling your child to breathe, but the act of breathing.

When we are in a fight or flight mode, our breathing changes.

It becomes more shallow and less rejuvenating because we are slowly starving ourselves of air.

This imbalance makes it harder for a child to calm down. It actually has quite the opposite effect. Like oil to the fire, it fuels their anxiety.

That’s why breathing the right way is super important to extinguish anxiety in the first place.

On Day 4 of the 28-Day Anxiety-Relief Challenge, Deborah introduces an ingenious breathing technique called ‘Blowing Bubbles’ that helps kids calm down in the moment.

It’s playful. And it works precisely because it’s fun to do.

It doesn’t require you to teach your child this breathing technique beforehand.

You can use it whenever their anxiety sets in.

Best of all, you won’t have to tell them to take a breath! They’ll simply do this fun activity and calm down in the process – it also works with adults.

There are a couple of other Mind-Calming Techniques to help your child get out of this “brain freeze” so that they can control their mind and calm down when anxiety takes over.

Ineffective Anxiety-Relief Method #3: Counting to 10 or counting objects in the room

Like taking a breath, this might have worked for your child the first few times around.

But the more often you suggest your child to count to 10, the quicker this method will lose its effect.

You see, counting doesn’t work because when your child is anxious, they simply cannot concentrate.

Their emotional part of the brain takes over and they are either in a fight or flight mode (literally running away or avoiding the situation) or in an emotional breakdown (crying or having an angry outburst).

And when they’re in these two states of mind, your child will often respond to your good-intentioned advice with more anger or louder crying.

So the first thing you need to do in that moment is bring your child into a logical state where they are ready to listen.

The easiest way to achieve that is with a handful of Body Relaxation Protocols.

Once their uncomfortable body sensations calm down, their mind will follow. They’ll go from an emotional state to a logical state, ready to listen to reason.

Ineffective Anxiety-Relief Method #3: You might have tried encouraging or reassuring your child…

If your child is fairly confident, encouraging them may give them the nudge they need to do something new.

But if your child is anxious, encouraging or pushing them often results in more anxiety and resistance.

For example, if your daughter is struggling with low self-image, telling her she looks beautiful to you won’t make her feel better. Why? Because self-esteem doesn’t come from words, but from experience.

Experience is when your daughter receives a positive comment from her peers on her hair. Or when you excitingly tell her you love how she made her makeup.

There are different ways you can help “install” mental security that boosts your child’s self-image and gives them the confidence to sleep alone, attend school, and navigate social situations alone.

Developing these essential coping skills doesn’t mean your child’s anxiety will magically disappear.

But what it does mean is that they’ll be able to face their fears and challenging situations even when they’re anxious.

They’ll be able to communicate their feelings to you so you know exactly what’s bothering them…

And you’ll have 28 new anxiety-relief techniques at your disposal to help them.

As you go through the challenge, you’ll see your child grow more resilient and confident…

… and anxiety will no longer hold them back from living their lives.